>> Speaker 1: If you already know how to
do mutations, which you should we have
a lot of examples, then this one is
pretty much the same thing, right?
We just we need to
figure out our mutation.
We have one called edit issue, we're
gonna use it, we're gonna create it, and
then we're gonna go into
the component in which it exists.
We're gonna put it in there.
And we're gonna edit our issues, but
we also want this change to be reflected
whenever you click edit issues.
So we'll have to see if we
need to do something, or
maybe it might be done for us for free.
And if it is, I'll tell you why.
If not, we'll fix it we're gonna say
EditIssueMutation, and we're gonna go and
pass on our mutation.
I'm not gonna copy from notion
because they have tabs apparently.
And instead I'm gonna go
here to Apollo studio.
I'm gonna click on my explorer and
I'm going to use that sound.
We're gonna make the mutation here,
I'm gonna say I want to edit the issue.
I'm gonna say I want to, get back.
I wanna get back the same fields that
I got back from the issues query.
Because if I edit this issue and when it
comes back to me, I want it to fit exactly
what the other issues in the list,
without it having any missing field.
So it works seamlessly.
So I'm just gonna ask for
all those similar things.
I know I have an ID, I know I have a name
there, I know I asked for content, and
I know I asked for status.
I don't think I asked for
anything else on the issues query.
I can go check.
So I'll go to the issues query and I can
see, yeah, content, id, name, status.
So I'm gonna add those four things,
content, id, name, status.
And this one has a non-null input.
Obviously, if you're gonna edit an issue,
what is the idea of the issue you
wanna edit and what the hell
are you trying to edit, right?.
So that's what these are.
So you can see here, I'm gonna say,
yeah, I want the id.
And you can pick, id is required, but
then you have to pick one of these.
Are you changing the content?
Are you changing the name?
Are you changing the issue status?
In this case,
I would change an issue status.
So I can put status here.
This part is irrelevant because we're not
really gonna use this unless you're using
it in the Explorer.
What I want is this part up here.
So I'm gonna say,
this is the EditIssueMutation, and
I'm gonna copy it, okay?
Go back to our app, GQL folder,
editIssueMutation.ts,
Import GQL from urql like that.
Export const.
EdditIssueMutation.
There we go.
So now we have our edit
issue mutation it's written,
we declared our variables here.
We pass it into the input here on
the input field of the edit issue.
We got the right fields.
Everything seems great.
So let's head over to,
I think where we wanna do this is,
it's gonna be on the status component,
so go look for
the status component in app
slash auto score components.
And yeah, I think we wanna do this here.
So because it is a mutation,
we know we need to import use mutation.
So let's do that from urql,
urql/next actually.
>> Speaker 1: There we go and
then let's import the mutation itself.
So EditIssueMutation like that.
So what we wanna do here
is we get this new status.
We just wanna go ahead and
call the function so I can say await or
actually we need to
describe the hook first.
So let's do that, so
let's get the hook, useMutation.
That's gonna take in
the editMutation like that.
This will give me an object
here that I'll de-structure and
then this is the actual function,
so editMutation.
So this will either give me an error,
some data, or a fetching.
And then I can say I wanna wait.
EditMutation, which takes
in object with the input,
and then that object has
to have an id on it,
whose id is gonna be issue
id from the props, and
then the actual status
that we wanna change to.
In this case, it's gonna be new status.
So I'm gonna say status, newstatus.
So we'll try that.
Let's make sure that this
on action is hooked up.
On action is hooked up here.
Don't worry about the TypeScript error,
it's fine.
On action is just, you'll see there's
a dropout menu when you click it,
on action response to that.
So let's go try, we'll go here, we'll
just refresh just for sanity reasons.
So now if you click on one of these
rings here, the status rings,
you can see it's currently backlogged.
I should be able to say in progress or
done.
So if I say in progress,
it changed to in progress.
If I refresh it,
it should still be in progress.
You can see kind of jumped down.
I could talk about that in a second.
But I can change this one to done.
It's done.
Refresh it,
probably dropped down to as well.
So, on the previous mutation that
we made for creating an issue,
we had to explicitly refresh the query
to get the new state to show up.
But for this mutation,
we didn't it just showed it immediately.
Why?
[LAUGH] Why did it do that?
Yeah, the reason it did that is because
urqel was able to figure that out for us,
and this is why I didn't want
to dive too much into this,
I feel like it's quite complicated.
But if we go back to the GQL provider,
urql uses this thing
called a cash exchange,
which I'm just gonna show you the docs so
we can talk about it for a little bit.
Here we go.
This right here does something called,
where's it, it's normalized caching.
So normalized caching, it's complicated
but basically what it means is,
you see if I can find a good
like it's getting deep here.
Let me see if I can find
a good example of that,
the best way I can describe
normalized caching is,
ergos gonna treat every entity in
our schema as like a collection.
So for instance, if I do a issues query,
it's going to take every issue and
put it in its own array in
the cache called issues.
Every issue that I get,
no matter what query it comes from
is gonna put it there, right?
So it normalizes all the data
that I get versus saving it as
the way that it came, right?
If it wasn't normalizing, it would just
cash it the way that it got it back and
that was it.
So you might have duplicate
issues everywhere.
If it normalizes the issues,
it won't duplicate them.
It won't save them the way that they
came back instead of it'll go grab all
the issues, and
put them in this collection.
And now whenever you start doing things on
an issue, it'll automatically update for
you if you send back the appropriate stuff
because it can match them by their ids.
So that's what happened on this last one.
The creating the update if you go back and
look here,
if we go back to see what comes
back from the editIssue, so
editIssue sends back an issue,
so does createIssue but,
the editIssue worked because,
there was already an issue in the cache.
So it knew, same id, cool,
I'm just gonna update it for you, right?
Whereas the new issue didn't exist,
so it didn't put it there.
We would have had to put
that there manually.
It wasn't smart to know that,
not by default.
I think there's some like hints you
can like give it to tell it like,
yeah, it gets crazy.
There's like some hints you
can do to like tell it, but
otherwise you'd have to write
to the cash yourself to do it.
But on the edit one, it was like, yeah,
this one already exists, cool, same id,
great, merge.
The one that came from the server
overrides the one that's in the cache.
It has a new status, it reflects
immediately that's why it happens so
quick without a network request.
So that's why I think writing to the cache
off of mutation is probably the best
approach because you wait until
the server actually responds, and
then you write to the cache, right?
And then, in the meantime, show,
like a local loading animation.
So if you, if you seen the,
what is it called?
The shimmer?
The shimmer loading animation?
I think most people call
it a skeleton I think.
So like this.
Show something like that, right?
That way you're not showing a whole
loading spinner or loading the whole page.
You're just showing just a little
loading icon for that one thing.
So in our example,
it would be just for that issue,
you might see something like this until
we can confirm back from the server that
the mutation was accepted and then we can
write to the cache with that new one.
Because the opposite is like
doing an optimistic update,
where you just skip the loading period and
you just show it on the screen and
pray that the server sends
back the same thing.
But if it doesn't it's quite jarring and
confusing for the user to see something
pop up immediately and
then have it be taken away almost as fast.
So I recommend this.
It's a good middle growl, but I didn't
feel like adding that, so I didn't add it.
But you get the point.
I did say I was gonna talk about why
these things jump around, right?
So if I do this and
I create this issue, it's here, but
that when I do this and refresh,
only when I refresh, it goes down.
That's actually just how I'm
doing the database stuff, right?
So on the database query
it's a little weird.
Okay, I'm gonna show
you some service stuff.
Don't worry about it.
Don't get too crazy.
So basically,
I'm ordering here by these enums.
So, I'm setting an order, but
that only happens on the server side,
which happens when I refresh the page.
But when when the cache gets updated
locally and the status reflects
the frontend doesn't know this,
the frontend doesn't know this part.
It's not doing sorting, so it doesn't know
to this thing got changed to progress,
I need to resort it
according to this logic.
It doesn't know that,
that happens on the backend.
So the front end will have to implement
similar sorting to the database sorting
for that to also reflect
when the cache gets updated.
Otherwise, it won't happen
until I refresh and
it comes back from the database
with this order buy right here.
So as far as implementing sorting and
stuff like that in the query,
how does that accomplish them?
Yeah, that's a great point.
So how can you accomplish
this in the query?
Well, there isn't any argument
that you couldn't ask for.
So you would have to ask yourself,
what about the ordering?
Do you want to be dynamic?
And then you would add that
into your schema, right?
So an example would be, let me see,
I have- So you do it in the schema?
You have to define it in the schema,
right?
So like here you can see for
the issues query, I allow you to
pass up an array of statuses and I will
return any issue that belongs to you,
that is one of the statuses,
so that's kind of a filter.
There's nothing stopping you from
also saying, orderBy, right, and
then what do you want someone to pass in?
Maybe they can pass in a string, and that
is something that you can use dynamically
in your SQL query to do
some type of ordering.
So it's whatever part of your
ordering that you want to be dynamic,
make that a input variable inside your
schema and then now it'll show up.
Cuz if I save this right now,
watch, I'm gonna save this.
So now you can see this is
on IssuesFilterInput, right?
So I'm gonna save that.
I'm going to go back to here.
I don't think I need to
refresh cuz it's polling.
So it might already be good.
And then if I go to issues,
what did I call it?
IssueFilterInput.
Okay, and it's not gonna find it there.
So let's just go to query,
IssueFilterInput.
There it is, or to buy it's already there.
So that's how you expose it.
There's another side to this, you now then
have to take that value and resolve it.
And we'll talk about that in
the service side of course.
But yeah,
you expose it through your schema, and
then you use it in your resolver.
Yeah.
And there was a comment in the chat.
Does this sound right?
GraphQL allows you to build a local graph
of related data, it knows the relationship
between data, so it knows the data
structure, and it knows what to update?
Close.
So it's not GraphQL that knows that,
by default,
GraphQL doesn't have anything
to do with updating cash.
It doesn't even do a cash.
It knows nothing about it.
GraphQL Graph QL exists purely for
the network layer.
Well, technically, you can use Graph QL
for anything, not just for networking and
Graph QL is just a way in which
you can query your graph.
That's it.
It's a mechanism like here's,
a syntax to query and
then here's some tools to
resolve those queries.
That's all Graph QL is, it doesn't know
anything about what's on the other side of
that resolver as far as like a cache,
a database, another service,
another graphical server.
So no,
it doesn't know anything about that, but
it does provide the metadata in which URQL
can then use to figure out what to update.
And that's what I was describing
as like the normalized caching.
So, it was smart enough to know that
that id existed because ids are keys by
default in urql you can change the keys
if you want and it just merged it.
It just merged it.
So, not entirely urql, urql definitely
needs the metadata from GraphQL, but
GraphQL doesn't, it doesn't know,
it doesn't do it.
It has nothing to do with caching or
anything like that?
Yes.
If we want to extend what we learned here
to actually work with the server does urql
automatically keep its local
cache in sync with the server?
Or is it a different set of
operations to actually update the DB?
Does urql automatically keep
its local state in sync, no.
So I think what they're
describing is subscriptions.
So subscription would be
what they're describing,
whereas that would be like a web socket.
So if you wanted your local application,
in this case, urql, to be in sync with
some data on the backend, you would
have to set up a subscription for that.
We're not gonna cover subscriptions.
For a lot of reasons,
one they're actually not that quite,
they're not that complicated, but like
we're using Next.js and doing like web
sockets on Next.js is like, you can't
really do it because it's serverless.
So you have to use a third
party service for that and
something else you got to sign up for.
None of them are really free or good.
So I didn't do it, but you would
need to subscription for that, yeah,
otherwise, I mean, I guess you could pull.
There's nothing stopping you from pulling.
Urql supports pulling so
you could pull a query.
And whenever new updates come,
you can do that.
And for some UIs, you might do that.
Like if you're on Twitter and you're on
the Twitter feed and you're all the way at
the bottom, Twitter shows you a bubble
at the top of your feed, hey,
you got 10 new tweets,
click here, you click it, and
it scrolls all the way to the top and
it loads in those two new ones.
They're probably pulling that, right,
there while you're on your feed.
They're just going to their server every,
I don't know, 30 seconds,
maybe I don't know what they're doing.
They're asking like, hey, are there
anything new since this timestamp anything
new since this timestamp, if there is they
show that w bubble that you can click on.
So that's some way you
could like keep it in sync.
That definitely wouldn't be real time.
You have a gap between whatever
your polling window was.
But other than that,
you have to use subscriptions.
Yeah.